## Exploratory Data Analysis Project 1

This assignment uses data from
the <a href="http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/">UC Irvine Machine
Learning Repository</a>, a popular repository for machine learning
datasets. In particular, we will be using the "Individual household
electric power consumption Data Set" which I have made available on
the course web site:


* <b>Dataset</b>: <a href="https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/exdata%2Fdata%2Fhousehold_power_consumption.zip">Electric power consumption</a> [20Mb]

* <b>Description</b>: Measurements of electric power consumption in
one household with a one-minute sampling rate over a period of almost
4 years. Different electrical quantities and some sub-metering values
are available.


The following descriptions of the 9 variables in the dataset are taken
from
the <a href="https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Individual+household+electric+power+consumption">UCI
web site</a>:

<ol>
<li><b>Date</b>: Date in format dd/mm/yyyy </li>
<li><b>Time</b>: time in format hh:mm:ss </li>
<li><b>Global_active_power</b>: household global minute-averaged active power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Global_reactive_power</b>: household global minute-averaged reactive power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Voltage</b>: minute-averaged voltage (in volt) </li>
<li><b>Global_intensity</b>: household global minute-averaged current intensity (in ampere) </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_1</b>: energy sub-metering No. 1 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the kitchen, containing mainly a dishwasher, an oven and a microwave (hot plates are not electric but gas powered). </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_2</b>: energy sub-metering No. 2 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the laundry room, containing a washing-machine, a tumble-drier, a refrigerator and a light. </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_3</b>: energy sub-metering No. 3 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to an electric water-heater and an air-conditioner.</li>
</ol>

## Files Inside This Repo

This repo includes four R scripts and four PNG files, with names : plot1, plot2, plot3, plot4. Each PNG file is generated by running the R script with the same file name with it.

plot1.png is a histogram of Global Active Power.
plot2.png is a plot of Global Active Power (y axis) vs Time (x axis).
plot3.png is a plot of Energy Sub Meter 1,2,3 (y axis) vs Time (x axis).
plot4.png consists of four plots. Top left one is a plot of Global Active Power (y axis) vs Time (x axis).
Top right is Voltage (y axis) vs Time (x axis).
Bottom left is Energy Sub Meter 1,2,3 (y axis) vs Time (x axis).
Bottom right is Global Reactive Power (y axis) vs Time (x axis).

The Time variable mentioned above (in the R scripts is called newtime) is a new variable of type Posixlt made from the combination of Date and Time from the original data set. 

## How to Run The Script

1. Download the data set from the link above
2. Extract the zipped file. 
3. DO NOT rename the extracted file.
4. Put the extracted file (txt file) in the same folder with the R script
